Document the `github.dev` editor (#6437)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/osu!_wiki/Contribution_guide/GitHub_web-based_editor/en.md

# GitHub web-based editor

*See also: [The github.dev web-based editor - GitHub Docs](https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/the-githubdev-web-based-editor)*

> [github.dev](https://github.dev) is a publicly available, GitHub-tailored web installation of [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com). Compared to GitHub's own web editor, it offers a lot more flexibility and control over the repository's contents. github.dev is a recommended way of editing the osu! wiki, especially when working on several articles at once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[github.dev](https://github.dev) is a publicly available, GitHub-tailored web version of [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com). Compared to GitHub's own web editor, it offers a lot more flexibility and control over the repository's contents. github.dev is a recommended way of editing the osu! wiki, especially when working on several articles at once.
```

## Navigation

*Note: To work with the osu! wiki, **[fork the `ppy/osu-wiki` repository](/wiki/osu!_wiki/Contribution_guide#editing-the-wiki).***

To open osu! wiki in the editor, replace `github.com` in the URL of the repository with `github.dev`. Alternatively, open your fork on GitHub and press `.` (period).

::: Infobox
![](img/command-palette.gif "Example use of the command palette")
:::

While all menus are accessible from the editor's interface, the intended way of navigation is using the **command palette**:

- Press `F1` and enter the name of a setting to open, or action to perform. If nothing shows up, explore the `≡` menu in the top left corner.
- To open a file, press `Ctrl` + `P` and enter its name.

## Branching

After you have read [Best practices § Making changes](/wiki/osu!_wiki/Contribution_guide/Best_practices#making-edits), create a new branch to store your changes in.

1. Click the current branch's name in the bottom left corner, or press `F1` and type `branch`.

>   - Select `Create new branch...`, enter the name of the branch and press `Enter`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Select `Create new branch...`, enter the name of the branch, and press `Enter`.
```

>   - To help yourself remember what your work is roughly about, choose a descriptive name, such as `de-modding-v2` for a German translation of [Beatmap Discussion](/wiki/Beatmap_Discussion).

Reviewer: awkward sentence

```suggestion
  - To help yourself remember what your work is roughly about, choose a descriptive name. As an example, for a German translation of [Beatmap Discussion](/wiki/Beatmap_Discussion), you could write `de-modding-v2`.
```

Author: yes

2. To return to your changes, select the appropriate branch's name in the previous dropdown.

## Editing

### Articles

1. Press `Ctrl` + `P` and enter the name of a file you want to open, then press `Enter`. Loose matching is supported: for example, typing `nominators veto en` will bring up `wiki/People/The_Team/Beatmap_Nominators/Beatmap_Veto/en.md`.
2. Edit the file as you wish. Uncommitted changes are **stored in your browser**, and you can return to them after leaving `github.dev`.
3. Once you are satisfied with the article(s), [commit the changes](#committing-changes).

### File operations

> - Open file explorer (`Ctrl` + `Shift` + `E`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Open the built-in file explorer (`Ctrl` + `Shift` + `E`).
```

Author: you are not wrong

Reviewer: not to be confused with `Win` + `E`

> - Move a file or a directory by dragging it around in the file explorer. Hold `Ctrl` to select multiple objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Move a file or a directory by dragging it around. Hold `Ctrl` to select multiple objects.
```

# GitHub web-based editor

*See also: [The github.dev web-based editor - GitHub Docs](https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/the-githubdev-web-based-editor)*

[github.dev](https://github.dev) is a publicly available, GitHub-tailored web version of [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com). Compared to GitHub's own web editor, it offers a lot more flexibility and control over the repository's contents. github.dev is a recommended way of editing the osu! wiki, especially when working on several articles at once.

## Navigation

*Note: To work with the osu! wiki, **[fork the `ppy/osu-wiki` repository](/wiki/osu!_wiki/Contribution_guide#editing-the-wiki).***

> To open osu! wiki in the editor, replace `github.com` in the URL of the repository with `github.dev`. Alternatively, open your fork on GitHub and press `.` (period).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To open osu! wiki in the editor, replace `github.com` in the URL of your fork of the repository with `github.dev`. Alternatively, open your fork on GitHub and press `.` (period).
```

::: Infobox
![](img/command-palette.gif "Example use of the command palette")
:::

While all menus are accessible from the editor's interface, the intended way of navigation is using the **command palette**:

> - Press `F1` and enter the name of a setting to open, or action to perform. If nothing shows up, explore the `≡` menu in the top left corner.

Author: I'll keep the symbol, less ambiguous. I know that it has a name, just that it's not widely recognized

> - To open a file, press `Ctrl` + `P` and enter its name.

Author: added a note at the top instead

## Branching

After you have read [Best practices § Making changes](/wiki/osu!_wiki/Contribution_guide/Best_practices#making-edits), create a new branch to store your changes in.

1. Click the current branch's name in the bottom left corner, or press `F1` and type `branch`.

  - Select `Create new branch...`, enter the name of the branch, and press `Enter`.

>   - To help yourself remember what your work is roughly about, choose a descriptive name. As an example, for a German translation of [Beatmap Discussion](/wiki/Beatmap_Discussion), you could write `de-modding-v2`.

Author: hey, either works

2. To return to your changes, select the appropriate branch's name in the previous dropdown.

## Editing

### Existing files

1. Press `Ctrl` + `P` and enter the name of a file you want to open, then press `Enter`. Loose matching is supported: for example, typing `nominators veto en` will bring up `wiki/People/The_Team/Beatmap_Nominators/Beatmap_Veto/en.md`.

> 2. Edit the file as you wish. Uncommitted changes are **stored in your browser**, and you can return to them after leaving `github.dev`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Make your changes to the file. Uncommitted changes are **stored in your browser**, and you can return to them after leaving `github.dev`.
```

Author: I'd rather use less `changes` as today's Thanksgiving and the article is stuffed with it already

3. Once you are satisfied with the article(s), [commit the changes](#committing-changes).

### New articles or translations

> An article is a folder with the original text (`en.md`) and its translations, which use different language-based file names.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Articles are stored within folders with the original text (`en.md`) and its translations, which use different language-based file names.
```

- To add a new **translation** for an existing article, right-click its folder and create a new `.md` file using [one of the supported file names](/wiki/Article_styling_criteria/Formatting#locales).
- To add a new **article**, do the following:

>   - Create a folder in an appropriate category following the [naming convention](/wiki/Article_styling_criteria/Formatting#folder-and-file-structure). If the article doesn't belong anywhere, create its folder in `/wiki/`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Create a folder in an appropriate category following the [naming convention](/wiki/Article_styling_criteria/Formatting#folder-and-file-structure). If the article doesn't belong anywhere, create its folder in the `/wiki/` directory.
```

  - Add the `en.md` file with the article's text to the new folder.

### File operations

- Open the built-in file explorer (`Ctrl` + `Shift` + `E`).
- Move a file or a directory by dragging it around. Hold `Ctrl` to select multiple objects.

> - To rename or delete files or directories, use the context menu or your operating system's hotkey (`F2` in Windows).

Reviewer 3: If the disclaimer is added, this would be:
```suggestion
- To rename or delete files or directories, use the context menu or press `F2`.
```
